---
layout: 	post
title:  	"Frontier"
date:   	2024-03-01 08:48:00 +0000
categories: non-fiction
---

As I write this, I'm sat in a coffee shop I've never been to before. It's really not very far from my flat at all; my gym is only two minutes up the road, and I walk there almost every day.

My [theme for this year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NVGuFdX5guE) is Frontier, and it's shaping up to be an interesting one. Let me tell you what it means.

When I choose my themes, I usually pick a word before anything else. Frontier felt right; in my experience, that's good enough. Meaning will find you. Here are the ones that have found me so far:

### I - Expanding Radius

At first blush, Frontier means to be at the edge, to push into things foreign or unknown. The new coffee shop I'm sat in is a great example of this, and so is this blog post. (Which you'll notice is the first one on this site, which is also new!) More travel is so obvious it's boring.

There's something more to the concept of your personal radius though, beyond what coffee shops you frequent or what cities you've been to. We can say your radius is **the set of actions you can perform without discovering**. Discovering what? New places, new patterns, new people; anything.

Discovery is not the same as learning, in the same way that reading about Peru is not the same thing as *going* to Peru. You can discover by reading, but you can only learn, rather then discover, the direct contents of the book. Rather, a book can help you discover things about yourself or your life that you previously hadn't considered: things that were outside your radius.

### II - Self Sufficiency

On the Frontier, you need to provide for yourself. Pushing into the unknown requires a more conservative attitude than staying put, where you have support networks to help you if you fail.

This has an important direct meaning for me, after burning out at the end of last year to finish [my latest iOS app, Thought Path](/portfolio/thought-path) (*wink wink nudge nudge*). 

***

Future posts to this blog will probably be less about me, and more my takes on things out in the world. (Hey, that's on-theme!) This was just to test the RSS feed - and to say hi :)

Which reminds me, you can subscribe over RSS here!

